# Change Log &ndash; v2.006

## New Features

* Transformed all of **string**, **wstring**, and **dstring**
  into invariant definitions.Tons of changes in function signatures and
  implementations rippled through the standard library. Initial experience
  with invariant strings seems to be highly encouraging.
* Implemented [Overload Sets](/function#overload-sets)
  for functions and templates.
* Added the [std.getopt](/phobos/std_getopt) module that makes
  standards-conforming command-line processing easy.
* Added the parse and assumeUnique to the [std.conv](/phobos/std_conv) module.
* Added the dirEntries function to the [std.file](/phobos/std_file) module.
* Added the basename and dirname functions (which alias the less gainful names
  getBaseName and getDirectoryName to the [std.path](/phobos/std_path)
  module.
* Added optional terminator to readln; added the convenience functions
  fopen and popen; added functions lines and chunks; all to the
  [std.stdio](/phobos/std_stdio) module.
* Added the munch function to the [std.string](/phobos/std_string) module.
* Fixed isStaticArray; added BaseClassesTuple, TransitiveBaseTypeTuple,
  ImplicitConversionTargets, isIntegral, isFloatingPoint, isNumeric,
  isSomeString, isAssociativeArray, isDynamicArray, isArray; all to the
  [std.traits](/phobos/std_traits) module.
* Added the [std.variant](/phobos/std_variant) module.
* Incorporated many of the Tango GC structural differences (much more to
  go still).
* Added the **std.contracts** module.
* Breaking change: **std.stdio.writef** can now only accept a format as its
  first argument.

## Bugs Fixed

* [Bugzilla 1478](/bug/1478) &mdash; Avoid libc network api threadsafety issues
* [Bugzilla 1491](/bug/1491) &mdash; Suppress SIGPIPE when sending to a dead socket
* [Bugzilla 1562](/bug/1562) &mdash; Deduction of template alias parameter fails
* [Bugzilla 1571](/bug/1571) &mdash; Const on function parameters not carried through to .di file
* [Bugzilla 1575](/bug/1575) &mdash; Cannot do assignment of tuples
* [Bugzilla 1579](/bug/1579) &mdash; write[ln] fails for obj.toString()
* [Bugzilla 1580](/bug/1580) &mdash; Concatenating invariant based strings should work
