# Change Log &ndash; v2.026

## New Features

* Escape string literals deprecated, see [Bugzilla 2658](/bug/2658)
* Tripled speed of exp, expm1, and exp2. std.math is now less dependent on the
  C standard library.
* Added nested structs.
* Added buildable dmd source.
* Many changes to **std.math** for speed, accuracy, and Tango compatibility:
    * Improved accuracy of exp, expm1, exp2, sinh, cosh, tanh on Mac OSX, and
      tripled speed on all platforms.
    * Now using IEEE754-2008 camelCase names for isNaN, isFinite, isNormal,
      isSubnormal, isInfinity. Aliases for the old names have been retained.
    * The non-functional nan(char[]) is replaced with NaN, getNaNpayload.

## Bugs Fixed

* [Bugzilla 1603](/bug/1603) &mdash; String literals bind to pointer types
* [Bugzilla 1629](/bug/1629) &mdash; Link error: Previous Definition Different: blablah__initZ
* [Bugzilla 1662](/bug/1662) &mdash; Falls back to libphobos if -debuglib isn't used when -g is
* [Bugzilla 1681](/bug/1681) &mdash; cast(real) ulong.max == 0
* [Bugzilla 2416](/bug/2416) &mdash; Slice of typedef'ed array should preserve the typedef'ed type
* [Bugzilla 2597](/bug/2597) &mdash; auto return doesn't work for a variety of cases
* [Bugzilla 2612](/bug/2612) &mdash; immutable not accepted wherever invariant is
* [Bugzilla 2619](/bug/2619) &mdash; Locally-instantiated structs are not instantiated locally
* [Bugzilla 2621](/bug/2621) &mdash; ref binds to rvalues of user-defined types
* [Bugzilla 2622](/bug/2622) &mdash; ref returns not allowed in complex template
* [Bugzilla 2623](/bug/2623) &mdash; Function type drops ref spec
* [Bugzilla 2670](/bug/2670) &mdash; std.file.read() should read files of 0 length
* [Bugzilla 2673](/bug/2673) &mdash; Static constructors sometimes do not run when compiling with -lib
* [Bugzilla 2675](/bug/2675) &mdash; cannot foreach structs with copy constructor
* [Bugzilla 2676](/bug/2676) &mdash; alias parameters not matched in concept if clause
* [Bugzilla 2677](/bug/2677) &mdash; Alias type parameters not visible in concept-if clauses
* [Bugzilla 2678](/bug/2678) &mdash; for loops are already assumed to terminate
* [Bugzilla 2679](/bug/2679) &mdash; Spurious "warning - " messages and erratic behaviour with is(typeof({void function}()))
* [Bugzilla 2684](/bug/2684) &mdash; Associative arrays have wrong opIndex signatures
* [Bugzilla 2690](/bug/2690) &mdash; DMD aborts with MALLOC_CHECK_ set
